## **HTML 2 Fragments Collection**

HTML2Fragments Collection is a command-line tool designed to simplify the conversion of pure HTML pages into reusable Liferay Fragments collections. The primary objective is to divide the raw HTML into individual components, which can then be transformed into Liferay Fragments. This process also includes incorporating the associated styles, referred to as "Themes," and including the necessary JavaScript files. To ensure compatibility and prevent conflicts with Liferay's default styles, the styles are scoped specifically to the Wrapper element.

## **How to Use**

*   To install the command-line tool, use the following command:   
    `npm i html-2-fragments-collection -g.`
*   Edit your HTML file and add the following attributes to each HTML element that you want to convert into a Liferay Fragment:

<table><tbody><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>Fragments Related Tags</strong></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-component-type</td><td>Assign a value of either "component" or "container" to this attribute.</td></tr><tr><td>liferay-component-name</td><td>Assign the desired fragment title as the value of this attribute.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>Navigation Related Tags</strong></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="navigation"</td><td><p>Include this attribute in the HTML element that represents your site navigation menu, and it will be replaced&nbsp;</p><p>with a Freemarker script to load the site navigation menu.</p></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="navigation-root"</td><td>Apply this attribute to the HTML element that serves as the root of your navigation menu template.</td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="navigation-item-with-sub"</td><td>Add this attribute to the HTML element that will be designated as your two-level navigation item template.</td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="navigation-sub-label"</td><td>Apply this attribute to the HTML element that will serve as the label for your two-level navigation item.</td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="navigation-single-item"</td><td>Add this attribute to the HTML element that will serve as your navigation item template.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>Liferay TagLibs/Macros Related Tags</strong></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="avatar"</td><td><p>Add this attribute to any <code><strong>&lt;div&gt;</strong></code> element in your HTML template, and it will be replaced with a&nbsp;</p><p>personal bar when the parser runs.</p></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="search"</td><td><p>Include this tag within any <code><strong>&lt;div&gt;</strong></code> element in your HTML template, and it will be replaced with a search bar&nbsp;</p><p>when the parser executes.</p></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="language"</td><td><p>Add this tag to any <code><strong>&lt;div&gt;</strong></code> element in your HTML template, and it will be replaced with a&nbsp;</p><p>language bar when the parser executes.</p></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="logo"</td><td><p>Include this tag within any element in your HTML template, and it will be replaced with the&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Liferay Portal Logo</strong> and a <strong>Home URL</strong> link.</p></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="dropzone"</td><td><p>Add this tag to any element within a component in your HTML template to transform that element&nbsp;</p><p>into a <strong>Dropzone Area</strong>.</p></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>Slider Related Tags</strong></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="slider"</td><td><p>Add this tag to any element within a component in your HTML template to convert that&nbsp;</p><p>element into a dynamic slider.</p></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="slide"</td><td><p>Include this tag within any element in your HTML template, specifically inside a <strong>slider</strong> tagged element,&nbsp;</p><p>to provide the parser with an example of a slider slide element.</p></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-slide-tag=""</td><td><p>To specify that you want a particular element inside a <strong>slide</strong> tagged element in your HTML&nbsp;</p><p>template to be mapped to a value loaded from your selected Liferay Collection, use the following tag:</p><p><code>&lt;liferay-slide-map liferay-slide-tag="yourTag" liferay-slide-type="yourType"&gt;</code></p><p><code>&lt;/liferay-slide-map&gt;</code></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Make sure that the value of <strong>liferay-slide-tag</strong> does not contain any special characters. Additionally, this tag should be used in conjunction with another tag to specify the type of value you are mapping. Here are the available types and their corresponding attributes:</p><ol><li><code>liferay-slide-type = "bg-image"</code>: For mapping the value to the style as a background image URL</li><li><code>liferay-slide-type = "image"</code>: For mapping the value to the style as a background image URL</li><li><code>liferay-slide-type = "text"</code>: For mapping the value to the element by setting its inner HTML</li><li><code>liferay-slide-type = "friendlyUrl"</code>: For mapping the web content friendly URL to an anchor element's href attribute</li><li><code>liferay-slide-type = "video"</code>: For mapping the value to video embed source</li></ol></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>Utility Tags</strong></td></tr><tr><td>liferay-tag="skip"</td><td><p>Include this tag within any element in your HTML template to indicate that the selected element&nbsp;</p><p>should be skipped during parsing “<strong>Convert As Is</strong>”.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Important Note:

The command-line tool has been developed to provide a starting point for the design migration process and simplify the conversion of static HTML components into reusable Liferay Fragments. As part of this process, the tool will scope your styles to ensure they are applied correctly within Liferay. However, this may result in some changes to your styles.

It is possible that you may need to modify the styles after they have been parsed to fine-tune and fix any issues. The tool will generate a Liferay Fragment Collection Project where you can find all your resources located in the resources folder. Once you have made the necessary modifications, you can easily execute the following commands to package the Fragment collection and prepare it for deployment in Liferay:

```plaintext
npm i 
npm run compress
```

By running these commands, you will install any required dependencies and compress the Fragment collection, making it ready for deployment.
